SHAERM >>> ALL RIGHT, JOINING US NOW,
>>> ALL RIGHT, JOINING US NOW, DEMOCRATIC MAYOR OF SOUTH BEND,
DEMOCRATIC MAYOR OF SOUTH BEND, INDIANA PETE BUTTIGIEG, HOW’D I
INDIANA PETE BUTTIGIEG, HOW’D I DO?
DO? >> VERY GOOD.
>> VERY GOOD. >> AUTHOR OF "SHORTEST WAY HOME,
>> AUTHOR OF "SHORTEST WAY HOME, ONE MAYOR’S CHALLENGE AND A
ONE MAYOR’S CHALLENGE AND A MODEL FOR AMERICA’S FUTURE."
MODEL FOR AMERICA’S FUTURE." JOE?
JOE? >> YOU SAID MICAH BUT, WHAT,
>> YOU SAID MICAH BUT, WHAT, PEOPLE NAIL BRZEZINSKI?
PEOPLE NAIL BRZEZINSKI? THAT’S EVEN TOUGHER.
THAT’S EVEN TOUGHER. WE’LL HIT ALL THE HOT BUTTON
WE’LL HIT ALL THE HOT BUTTON ISSUES AND LET DEMOCRATIC VOTERS
ISSUES AND LET DEMOCRATIC VOTERS KNOW WHERE YOU STAND.
KNOW WHERE YOU STAND. LET’S START WITH YOUR IDEOLOGY
LET’S START WITH YOUR IDEOLOGY FIRST FOR PEOPLE WHO DON’T KNOW
FIRST FOR PEOPLE WHO DON’T KNOW WHERE YOU STAND.
WHERE YOU STAND. WOULD YOU SAY YOU’RE MORE
WOULD YOU SAY YOU’RE MORE LIBERAL, LESS LIBERAL THAN AOC,
LIBERAL, LESS LIBERAL THAN AOC, NANCY PELOSI?
NANCY PELOSI? >> I CONSIDER MYSELF A PRETTY
>> I CONSIDER MYSELF A PRETTY STRONG PROGRESSIVE BUT I DON’T
STRONG PROGRESSIVE BUT I DON’T CONSIDER THE LEFT CENTER
CONSIDER THE LEFT CENTER SPECTRUM THE BEST WAY TO LOOK AT
SPECTRUM THE BEST WAY TO LOOK AT OUR POLITICS RIGHT NOW.
OUR POLITICS RIGHT NOW. >> DO YOU CONSIDER YOURSELF MORE
>> DO YOU CONSIDER YOURSELF MORE OF A CENTRIST?
OF A CENTRIST? >> AGAIN, I DON’T CARE MUCH FOR
>> AGAIN, I DON’T CARE MUCH FOR LABELS BUT I ACTUALLY DON’T
LABELS BUT I ACTUALLY DON’T BELIEVE THE BEST WAY TO REACH
BELIEVE THE BEST WAY TO REACH INDEPENDENTS TODAY IS THROUGH
INDEPENDENTS TODAY IS THROUGH IDEOLOGICAL CENTRISM.
IDEOLOGICAL CENTRISM. VOTERS, ESPECIALLY VOTERS IN THE
VOTERS, ESPECIALLY VOTERS IN THE HEARTLAND WHERE I COME FROM
HEARTLAND WHERE I COME FROM DON’T NECESSARILY MAKE THEIR
DON’T NECESSARILY MAKE THEIR DECISIONS BY LINING EVERYBODY UP
DECISIONS BY LINING EVERYBODY UP ON AN IDEOLOGICAL SPECTRUM AND
ON AN IDEOLOGICAL SPECTRUM AND LOOKING FOR THE DOT THAT’S
LOOKING FOR THE DOT THAT’S CLOSEST TO WHERE THEY ARE.
CLOSEST TO WHERE THEY ARE. PUSH COME TO SHOVE, I’M GOING TO
PUSH COME TO SHOVE, I’M GOING TO COME AT MOST OF THESE POLICY
COME AT MOST OF THESE POLICY QUESTIONS FROM A PROGRESSIVE
QUESTIONS FROM A PROGRESSIVE AINGE
AINGE ANGLE.
ANGLE. >> DONALD TRUMP’S BEEN PUSHING,
>> DONALD TRUMP’S BEEN PUSHING, AS HAVE REPUBLICANS, THE LINE
AS HAVE REPUBLICANS, THE LINE THAT DEMOCRATS WANT TO TURN
THAT DEMOCRATS WANT TO TURN AMERICA INTO A SOCIALIST
AMERICA INTO A SOCIALIST COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. DO YOU HAVE THINK MOVING TOWARDS
DO YOU HAVE THINK MOVING TOWARDS SO ISM IS-- SOCIALISM IS A POSIT
SO ISM IS-- SOCIALISM IS A POSIT STEP FOR THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY?
STEP FOR THE DEMOCRATIC PARTY? >> I THINK IT’S A WORD IN
>> I THINK IT’S A WORD IN AMERICAN POLITICS THAT HAS
AMERICAN POLITICS THAT HAS BASICALLY LOST ALL MEANING.
BASICALLY LOST ALL MEANING. THAT BEGAN WHEN A CONSERVATIVE
THAT BEGAN WHEN A CONSERVATIVE PROPOSAL, THE AFFORDABLE CARE
PROPOSAL, THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, DEVELOPED IN THE HERITAGE
ACT, DEVELOPED IN THE HERITAGE FOUNDATION, BEGAN TO BE
FOUNDATION, BEGAN TO BE DESCRIBED AS SOCIALIST BY
DESCRIBED AS SOCIALIST BY CONSERVATIVES WHO ARE OPPOSING
CONSERVATIVES WHO ARE OPPOSING IT.
IT. I KNOW FOR YEARS SOCIALISM HAS
I KNOW FOR YEARS SOCIALISM HAS BEEN USED AS A KILL SWITCH TO
BEEN USED AS A KILL SWITCH TO STOP AN IDEA FROM BEING TALKED
STOP AN IDEA FROM BEING TALKED ABOUT.
ABOUT. IF YOU’RE FROM MY GENERATION, IS
IF YOU’RE FROM MY GENERATION, IS AN IDEA GOOD OR NOT?
AN IDEA GOOD OR NOT? WE DON’T CARE WHETHER IT READS
WE DON’T CARE WHETHER IT READS TO SOME CONSERVATIVES AS MORE
TO SOME CONSERVATIVES AS MORE SOCIALISTS OR NOT, WE CARE ABOUT
SOCIALISTS OR NOT, WE CARE ABOUT WHETHER IT IT WORKS.
WHETHER IT IT WORKS. >> SO DOES HE CAPITALISM WORK?
>> SO DOES HE CAPITALISM WORK? >> YEAH, AMERICAN CAPITALISM IS
>> YEAH, AMERICAN CAPITALISM IS THE MOST PRODUCTIVE ECONOMIC
THE MOST PRODUCTIVE ECONOMIC FORCE KNOWN TO MAN BUT WE KNOW
FORCE KNOWN TO MAN BUT WE KNOW IT CAN CREATE MASSIVE INEQUALITY
IT CAN CREATE MASSIVE INEQUALITY AND IT CAN DESTROY ITSELF IF YOU
AND IT CAN DESTROY ITSELF IF YOU DON’T HAVE THE WISE CONSTRAINTS
DON’T HAVE THE WISE CONSTRAINTS THAT MAKE PEOPLE FREE.
THAT MAKE PEOPLE FREE. THERE’S A GENERATION OF PEOPLE
THERE’S A GENERATION OF PEOPLE WHO GREW UP AT A TIME WHEN UP
WHO GREW UP AT A TIME WHEN UP HAD COMMUNEISM AND SOCIALISM.
HAD COMMUNEISM AND SOCIALISM. DO YOU CARE ABOUT CAPITALISM
DO YOU CARE ABOUT CAPITALISM MORE THAN DEMOCRACY OR DEMOCRACY
MORE THAN DEMOCRACY OR DEMOCRACY MORE ABOUT CAPITALISM?
MORE ABOUT CAPITALISM? >> DO YOU SUPPORT LATE-TERM
>> DO YOU SUPPORT LATE-TERM ABORTION LEGISLATION THAT WAS
ABORTION LEGISLATION THAT WAS PASSED IN THE NEW YORK STATE
PASSED IN THE NEW YORK STATE LEGISLATURE AS WELL AS IN
LEGISLATURE AS WELL AS IN VIRGINIA?
VIRGINIA? >> I DON’T THINK WE NEED MORE
>> I DON’T THINK WE NEED MORE RESTRICTIONS RIGHT NOW.
RESTRICTIONS RIGHT NOW. WHAT I’VE LEARNED IN INDIANA,
WHAT I’VE LEARNED IN INDIANA, BEING AT A PLACE WHERE A LOT OF
BEING AT A PLACE WHERE A LOT OF MY FRIENDS, A LOT OF MY
MY FRIENDS, A LOT OF MY SUPPORTERS EVEN COME FROM A
SUPPORTERS EVEN COME FROM A DIFFERENT PLACE THAN I DO, BEING
DIFFERENT PLACE THAN I DO, BEING PRO-CHOICE, I BELIEVE WHEN A
PRO-CHOICE, I BELIEVE WHEN A WOMAN IS IN THAT SITUATION AND
WOMAN IS IN THAT SITUATION AND WHEN WE’RE TALKING ABOUT SOME OF
WHEN WE’RE TALKING ABOUT SOME OF THOSE SITUATIONS COVERED BY THAT
THOSE SITUATIONS COVERED BY THAT LAW EXTREMELY DIFFICULT,
LAW EXTREMELY DIFFICULT, PAINFUL, OFTEN MEDICALLY SERIOUS
PAINFUL, OFTEN MEDICALLY SERIOUS SITUATIONS WHERE LIFE OR HEALTH
SITUATIONS WHERE LIFE OR HEALTH OF THE MOTHER IS AT STAKE, THE
OF THE MOTHER IS AT STAKE, THE INVOLVEMENT OF A MALE GOVERNMENT
INVOLVEMENT OF A MALE GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL LIKE ME IS NOT HELPFUL.
OFFICIAL LIKE ME IS NOT HELPFUL. >> SHOULD STATES HAVE A RIGHT TO
>> SHOULD STATES HAVE A RIGHT TO BAN ABORTION AT 20 WEEKS?
BAN ABORTION AT 20 WEEKS? >> THAT SOUNDS LIKE
>> THAT SOUNDS LIKE CONSTITUTIONAL QUESTION.
CONSTITUTIONAL QUESTION. I’M NOT A LEGAL SCHOLAR.
I’M NOT A LEGAL SCHOLAR. I KNOW THESE QUESTIONS OUGHT TO
I KNOW THESE QUESTIONS OUGHT TO BE RESOLVED BY WOMEN IN
BE RESOLVED BY WOMEN IN CONSULTATION WITH THEIR DOCTORS,
CONSULTATION WITH THEIR DOCTORS, NOT BY THE INTERVENTION OF MALE
NOT BY THE INTERVENTION OF MALE POLITICIANS PUTTING POLITICALLY
POLITICIANS PUTTING POLITICALLY MOTIVATED RESTRICTIONS ON HEALTH
MOTIVATED RESTRICTIONS ON HEALTH CARE.
CARE. >> ARE YOU DONE, JOE?
>> ARE YOU DONE, JOE? >> I AM, MICAH.
>> I AM, MICAH. >> MICAH HERE.
>> MICAH HERE. BY THE WAY, HE’S GOT A VERY
BY THE WAY, HE’S GOT A VERY CALMING PRESENCE.
CALMING PRESENCE. YOU’RE LIKE THE MR. RODGERS OF
YOU’RE LIKE THE MR. RODGERS OF THE DEMOCRATIC FIELD.
THE DEMOCRATIC FIELD. >> I THINK IT WAS INTENDED AS A
>> I THINK IT WAS INTENDED AS A COMPLIMENT.
COMPLIMENT. >> JACKET OFF.
>> JACKET OFF. WE’VE GOT AN INCREDIBLE FIELD OF
WE’VE GOT AN INCREDIBLE FIELD OF CANDIDATES, THEY’RE ALL
CANDIDATES, THEY’RE ALL EXCITING.
EXCITING. NOBODY SCREAMS FOREIGN POLICY
NOBODY SCREAMS FOREIGN POLICY EXPERT TO ME.
EXPERT TO ME. SO I JUST WANT TO ASK YOU A
SO I JUST WANT TO ASK YOU A RANDOM QUESTION.
RANDOM QUESTION. BESIDES SANCTIONING, WHAT OTHER
BESIDES SANCTIONING, WHAT OTHER STEPS SHOULD THE UNITED STATES
STEPS SHOULD THE UNITED STATES TAKE TO GET NORTH KOREA TO HALT
TAKE TO GET NORTH KOREA TO HALT ITS MISSILE PROGRAM?
ITS MISSILE PROGRAM? >> UNFORTUNATELY WE MOVED IN
>> UNFORTUNATELY WE MOVED IN EXACTLY THE WRONG DIRECTION BY
EXACTLY THE WRONG DIRECTION BY LEGITIMATIZING THEIR LEADERSHIP.
LEGITIMATIZING THEIR LEADERSHIP. IN SOFT POWER TERMS THROUGH A
IN SOFT POWER TERMS THROUGH A SUM THAT DIDN’TMIT THAT DIDN’T H
SUM THAT DIDN’TMIT THAT DIDN’T H RIGHT KIND OF PRECONDITIONS.
RIGHT KIND OF PRECONDITIONS. SO GETTING THAT BACK ON THE
SO GETTING THAT BACK ON THE RIGHT TRACK.
RIGHT TRACK. SANCTIONS BELONG IN OUR NATIONAL
SANCTIONS BELONG IN OUR NATIONAL SECURITY PORTFOLIO I THINK WILL
SECURITY PORTFOLIO I THINK WILL BE A LOT MORE EFFECTIVE THAN
BE A LOT MORE EFFECTIVE THAN HOLDING A SUMMIT, WEIRDLY
HOLDING A SUMMIT, WEIRDLY DECLARING THE NUCLEAR THREAT IS
DECLARING THE NUCLEAR THREAT IS NOT A PROBLEM AND BEING
NOT A PROBLEM AND BEING EMBARRASSINGLY CONTRADICTED BY
EMBARRASSINGLY CONTRADICTED BY YOUR OWN CHIEFS IN CONGRESS.
YOUR OWN CHIEFS IN CONGRESS. >> CLAIRE, YOU HAVE THE NEXT
>> CLAIRE, YOU HAVE THE NEXT QUESTION.
QUESTION. >> MAYOR PETE, YOU’VE BEEN
>> MAYOR PETE, YOU’VE BEEN CRUSHING IT OUT THERE.
CRUSHING IT OUT THERE. >> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU. >> I’VE BEEN PAYING ATTENTION.
>> I’VE BEEN PAYING ATTENTION. YOU ARE SOMEBODY WHO I THINK HAS
YOU ARE SOMEBODY WHO I THINK HAS GOOD IDEAS, SOMEBODY WHO HAS
GOOD IDEAS, SOMEBODY WHO HAS EXECUTED ON A LOCAL LEVEL.
EXECUTED ON A LOCAL LEVEL. I THINK ONE OF THE MOST
I THINK ONE OF THE MOST INTERESTING THINGS ABOUT YOU
INTERESTING THINGS ABOUT YOU THAT I’M SURE PEOPLE DO NOT
THAT I’M SURE PEOPLE DO NOT KNOW, HOW MANY LANGUAGES DO YOU
KNOW, HOW MANY LANGUAGES DO YOU SPEAK SM
SPEAK SM SPEAK?
SPEAK? >> DEPENDS WHAT YOU MEAN BY
>> DEPENDS WHAT YOU MEAN BY SPEAK.
SPEAK. I’VE GOTTEN PRETTY RUSTY ON MY
I’VE GOTTEN PRETTY RUSTY ON MY ARABIC AND BLY DARI.
ARABIC AND BLY DARI. I CAN STILL READ A NEWSPAPER IN
I CAN STILL READ A NEWSPAPER IN NORWEGIAN BUT ONLY SLOWLY.
NORWEGIAN BUT ONLY SLOWLY. >> YOU SPEAK SPANISH?
>> YOU SPEAK SPANISH? YOU SPEAK -- YOU ARE SOMEONE WHO
YOU SPEAK -- YOU ARE SOMEONE WHO CLEARLY HAS BEEN INTERESTED IN
CLEARLY HAS BEEN INTERESTED IN LEARNING MORE AND BEING
LEARNING MORE AND BEING INTELLECTUALLY CURIOUS.
INTELLECTUALLY CURIOUS. HOW IMPORTANT DO YOU THINK THAT
HOW IMPORTANT DO YOU THINK THAT IS FOR A PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
IS FOR A PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES?
STATES? >> I THINK CURIOSITY IS A REALLY
>> I THINK CURIOSITY IS A REALLY IMPORTANT QUALITY FOR
IMPORTANT QUALITY FOR LEADERSHIP, BEING MOTIVATED TO
LEADERSHIP, BEING MOTIVATED TO PEEL BACK THE LAYERS AND SEE THE
PEEL BACK THE LAYERS AND SEE THE STORY BEHIND THE STORY.
STORY BEHIND THE STORY. IT FRIGHTENS ME THAT WE HAVE
IT FRIGHTENS ME THAT WE HAVE SUCH AN INCURIOUS PRESIDENT
SUCH AN INCURIOUS PRESIDENT RIGHT NOW.
RIGHT NOW. I DON’T THINK HE’S INCLINED TO
I DON’T THINK HE’S INCLINED TO ASK QUESTIONS, OBVIOUSLY HE
ASK QUESTIONS, OBVIOUSLY HE DOESN’T READ A LOT.
DOESN’T READ A LOT. HOW COULD YOU BE IN THAT OFFICE
HOW COULD YOU BE IN THAT OFFICE AND NOT USE THE FACT YOU COULD
AND NOT USE THE FACT YOU COULD HAVE LUNCH WITH A NASA REGULATOR
HAVE LUNCH WITH A NASA REGULATOR AND THEN ALSO -- ONE OF
AND THEN ALSO -- ONE OF AMERICA’S GREAT QUALITIES IS
AMERICA’S GREAT QUALITIES IS WE’VE ALWAYS BEEN A CURIOUS
WE’VE ALWAYS BEEN A CURIOUS COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. IT’S PART OF WHAT AMERICA’S PURR
IT’S PART OF WHAT AMERICA’S PURR ENTREPRENEURIANSHIP IS BUILT ON.
ENTREPRENEURIANSHIP IS BUILT ON. >> HOW DO YOU TELL THE PEOPLE
>> HOW DO YOU TELL THE PEOPLE WHEN YOU GOVERN A CITY THAT HAS
WHEN YOU GOVERN A CITY THAT HAS THE POPULATION NOT EVEN A
THE POPULATION NOT EVEN A QUARTER OF STATEN ISLAND?
QUARTER OF STATEN ISLAND? >> THAT QUESTION IS FAIR GAME.
>> THAT QUESTION IS FAIR GAME. I WOULD SAY A MAYOR OF A CITY AT
I WOULD SAY A MAYOR OF A CITY AT ANY LEVEL HAS THE KIND OF
ANY LEVEL HAS THE KIND OF EXECUTIVE EXPERIENCE THAT IS
EXECUTIVE EXPERIENCE THAT IS MOST RELEVANT TO THAT JOB.
MOST RELEVANT TO THAT JOB. WHEN YOU’RE A MAYOR, ESPECIALLY
WHEN YOU’RE A MAYOR, ESPECIALLY IN A STRONG MAYOR SYSTEM LIKE
IN A STRONG MAYOR SYSTEM LIKE OURS WHERE WE DON’T HAVE A CITY
OURS WHERE WE DON’T HAVE A CITY MANAGER, FOR EXAMPLE, YOU GET
MANAGER, FOR EXAMPLE, YOU GET THE CALL.
THE CALL. IT COULD BE ANYTHING ABOUT A
IT COULD BE ANYTHING ABOUT A MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR IN AN
MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR IN AN INDUSTRIAL PARK OR DECIDING
INDUSTRIAL PARK OR DECIDING WHETHER TO OPERATE THE EMERGENCY
WHETHER TO OPERATE THE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR A WEATHER
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR A WEATHER EMERGENCY.
EMERGENCY. I WOULD ARGUE THAT WORK, BEING
I WOULD ARGUE THAT WORK, BEING MAYOR OF A CITY OF ANY SIZE IS
MAYOR OF A CITY OF ANY SIZE IS ARGUABLY MORE RELEVANT.
ARGUABLY MORE RELEVANT. I DON’T MEAN ANY DISRESPECT OF
I DON’T MEAN ANY DISRESPECT OF SENATOR McCASKILL’S FORMER
SENATOR McCASKILL’S FORMER COLLEAGUES DOING VERY GOOD WORK
COLLEAGUES DOING VERY GOOD WORK IN CONGRESS RIGHT NOW.
IN CONGRESS RIGHT NOW. I THINK IT SHOWS RIGHT NOW THAT
I THINK IT SHOWS RIGHT NOW THAT WE HAVE A PRESIDENT WHO DOES HE
WE HAVE A PRESIDENT WHO DOES HE NOT HAVE GOVERNMENT EXPERIENCE
NOT HAVE GOVERNMENT EXPERIENCE AND IT MAY BE A LITTLE CHEEKY
AND IT MAY BE A LITTLE CHEEKY FOR ME TO SAY THIS AS THE
FOR ME TO SAY THIS AS THE YOUNGEST GEE IN THE AND.
YOUNGEST GEE IN THE AND. >> I LOVE MAYORS.
>> I LOVE MAYORS. THEY ALWAYS SAY THERE ARE NOT
THEY ALWAYS SAY THERE ARE NOT REPUBLICANS STREETLIGHTS AND
REPUBLICANS STREETLIGHTS AND POTHOLES.
POTHOLES. YOU MENTIONED YOU’VE HAD TO
YOU MENTIONED YOU’VE HAD TO COMPROMISE WITH REPUBLICANS IN
COMPROMISE WITH REPUBLICANS IN ORDER TO GET THINGS DONE IN
ORDER TO GET THINGS DONE IN SOUTH BEND.
SOUTH BEND. CAN YOU GIVE US AN EXAMPLE WHERE
CAN YOU GIVE US AN EXAMPLE WHERE YOU COMPROMISED WITH REPUBLICANS
YOU COMPROMISED WITH REPUBLICANS THAT WAS HARD IN ORDER TO
THAT WAS HARD IN ORDER TO IMPROVE THE LIVES OF PEOPLE IN
IMPROVE THE LIVES OF PEOPLE IN YOUR CITY.
YOUR CITY. >> ONE THING I HAD TO DO THEY
>> ONE THING I HAD TO DO THEY DECIDED TO DO THE RIGHT THING
DECIDED TO DO THE RIGHT THING AND ADJUST THE GAS TAX SO WE
AND ADJUST THE GAS TAX SO WE WOULD HAVE MORE FUNDS TO FILL IN
WOULD HAVE MORE FUNDS TO FILL IN POTHOLES AND BUT I KNEW IT WAS
POTHOLES AND BUT I KNEW IT WAS THE ROOT THING FROM THE
THE ROOT THING FROM THE INFRASTRUCTURE STRUCTURE.
INFRASTRUCTURE STRUCTURE. WHEN YOU’RE A MAYOR, YOU HAVE TO
WHEN YOU’RE A MAYOR, YOU HAVE TO WORK WITH ANYBODY WHO IS IN A
WORK WITH ANYBODY WHO IS IN A POSITION TO HELP YOUR STATE.
POSITION TO HELP YOUR STATE. NEEDLESS TO SAY, I HAVE SOME
NEEDLESS TO SAY, I HAVE SOME VERY STRONG OPINIONS ABOUT MEEK
VERY STRONG OPINIONS ABOUT MEEK PENCE, SO DOES HE MY HOUSE, BUT.
PENCE, SO DOES HE MY HOUSE, BUT. >> ALL RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT. >> BUT LET’S GO BACK TO SOME OF
>> BUT LET’S GO BACK TO SOME OF THE THINGS THAT YOU SAID AT THE
THE THINGS THAT YOU SAID AT THE BEGINNING.
BEGINNING. WHETHER YOU WANT TO BE DEFINED
WHETHER YOU WANT TO BE DEFINED ALONG A POLITICAL SPECTRUM OR
ALONG A POLITICAL SPECTRUM OR NOT, PEOPLE ARE GOING TO TRY TO
NOT, PEOPLE ARE GOING TO TRY TO DEFINE YOU.
DEFINE YOU. YOU’RE FOR THE GREEN NEW DEAL,
YOU’RE FOR THE GREEN NEW DEAL, YOU’RE FOR MEDICARE FOR ALL WITH
YOU’RE FOR MEDICARE FOR ALL WITH A FEW ASTERISKS, IT SOUNDS LIKE
A FEW ASTERISKS, IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU’RE GOING TO GET DEFINED
YOU’RE GOING TO GET DEFINED PRETTY STAR OVER ON THE
PRETTY STAR OVER ON THE PROGRESSIVE SPECTRUM.
PROGRESSIVE SPECTRUM. >> I THINK WE HAVE TO DECIDE ARE
>> I THINK WE HAVE TO DECIDE ARE WE GOING TO KEEP BEING DEFINED
WE GOING TO KEEP BEING DEFINED WHERE THESE FENCE POSTS ARE OR
WHERE THESE FENCE POSTS ARE OR DO WHAT THE RIGHT VERY
DO WHAT THE RIGHT VERY SUCCESSFULLY DID AND REDEFINE
SUCCESSFULLY DID AND REDEFINE THEM?
THEM? ACA, WHICH WAS A CONFIRM TIFF
ACA, WHICH WAS A CONFIRM TIFF PROPOSAL, WHAT IS MEDICARE FOR
PROPOSAL, WHAT IS MEDICARE FOR ALL?
ALL? IT’S A, THE TRUE LEFT-WING
IT’S A, THE TRUE LEFT-WING POSITION AND THE COMPROMISE IS A
POSITION AND THE COMPROMISE IS A SINGLE SYSTEM WHERE YOU HAVE
SINGLE SYSTEM WHERE YOU HAVE PRIVATE DOCTORS BUT A PUBLIC
PRIVATE DOCTORS BUT A PUBLIC PAIR.
PAIR. WE HAVE TO STOP MOVING THE
WE HAVE TO STOP MOVING THE GOALPOST --
GOALPOST -- >> RESPECTFULLY IT’S NOT THE
>> RESPECTFULLY IT’S NOT THE RIGHT THAT’S MOVING AT THE
RIGHT THAT’S MOVING AT THE MOMENT.
MOMENT. IT’S THE DEMOCRATS.
IT’S THE DEMOCRATS. WE HAVE 15 CANDIDATES WHO ARE
WE HAVE 15 CANDIDATES WHO ARE TRYING TO FIGURE OUT.
TRYING TO FIGURE OUT. NATURALLY IT’S NOT SURPRISING.
NATURALLY IT’S NOT SURPRISING. >> ARE YOU MAKING THAT SOUND
>> ARE YOU MAKING THAT SOUND DIRTY, STEVE?
DIRTY, STEVE? >> NO, I WASN’T TRYING TO.
>> NO, I WASN’T TRYING TO. >> YOU WERE SAYING IT SO
>> YOU WERE SAYING IT SO ACCUSINGLY.
ACCUSINGLY. >> THERE’S THIS CYCLE WE’RE IN
>> THERE’S THIS CYCLE WE’RE IN THE MIDDLE OF BUT THERE’S THE
THE MIDDLE OF BUT THERE’S THE BIGGER PROJECT OF MAKING SURE
BIGGER PROJECT OF MAKING SURE THE CENTER OF GRAVITY OF
THE CENTER OF GRAVITY OF AMERICAN POP TIKS IS LINED UP
AMERICAN POP TIKS IS LINED UP WITH THE PEOPLE.
WITH THE PEOPLE. TODAY ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE
TODAY ON THE ANNIVERSARY OF THE PARKLAND SHOOTINGS, YOU HAVE
PARKLAND SHOOTINGS, YOU HAVE UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND CHECK, FOR
UNIVERSAL BACKGROUND CHECK, FOR EXAMPLE, SOMETHING THAT MOST GUN
EXAMPLE, SOMETHING THAT MOST GUN AND THE RIGHT DID A MAST AREFUL
AND THE RIGHT DID A MAST AREFUL JOB PULLING THE RIGHT FURTHER TO
JOB PULLING THE RIGHT FURTHER TO THE RIGHT OF THE SPECTRUM THAN
THE RIGHT OF THE SPECTRUM THAN WHERE MOST PEOPLE ALREADY ARE.
WHERE MOST PEOPLE ALREADY ARE. MOST PEOPLE GET THAT WAGES ARE
MOST PEOPLE GET THAT WAGES ARE TOO LOW AND WE HAVE TO DO
TOO LOW AND WE HAVE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT THAT.
SOMETHING ABOUT THAT. I DON’T THINK IT’S A CRAZY IDEA
I DON’T THINK IT’S A CRAZY IDEA THAT WE HAVE TO HAVE A SENSE OF
THAT WE HAVE TO HAVE A SENSE OF URGENCY OR EMERGENCY EVEN, THAT
URGENCY OR EMERGENCY EVEN, THAT WE HAVE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT
WE HAVE TO DO SOMETHING ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE THAT ACKNOWLEDGES
CLIMATE CHANGE THAT ACKNOWLEDGES IF AS AN EMERGENCY THAT REALLY
IF AS AN EMERGENCY THAT REALLY IS IN ITS DESTRUCTIVE POWER ON
IS IN ITS DESTRUCTIVE POWER ON PAR WITH SOMETHING LIKE THE
PAR WITH SOMETHING LIKE THE GREAT DEPRESSION OR WORLD WAR
GREAT DEPRESSION OR WORLD WAR II.
II. OF COURSE WE HAVE TO HAVE
OF COURSE WE HAVE TO HAVE SOMETHING OFF ON THE SKAM SCALE
SOMETHING OFF ON THE SKAM SCALE OF A NEW.
OF A NEW. >> GOOD LUCK TO YOU.
>> GOOD LUCK TO YOU. COME BACK.
COME BACK. CLAIRE McCASKILL, THANK YOU AS
CLAIRE McCASKILL, THANK YOU AS WELL.
WELL. GREAT TO SEE YOU.
GREAT TO SEE YOU. >> YOU BET.
>> YOU BET. >> IT’S BEEN NEARLY A YEAR SINCE